Abidjan	 Ivory Coast
Yamoussoukro
Abu Dhabi	 United Arab Emirates
Abuja	 Nigeria	Lagos was the capital from 1914 to 1991.
Accra	 Ghana
Adamstown	 Pitcairn Islands	British Overseas Territory.
Addis Ababa	 Ethiopia
Aden	 Yemen	Sana'a has been occupied by Houthis rebels since February 2015. Aden, the former capital of South Yemen, is Yemen's acting capital. See also: Yemeni Civil War (2015–present).
Sana'a
Algiers	 Algeria
Alofi	 Niue	Self-governing in free association with New Zealand.
Amman	 Jordan
Amsterdam	 Netherlands	The Dutch constitution refers to Amsterdam as the "capital". Also of the public bodies of:  Bonaire,  Saba and  Sint Eustatius.
The Hague	The Dutch government is located in The Hague, which also hosts the monarch, government ministries, judiciary and diplomatic missions.
Andorra la Vella	 Andorra
Ankara	 Turkey
Antananarivo	 Madagascar
Apia	 Samoa
Ashgabat	 Turkmenistan
Asmara	 Eritrea
Asunción	 Paraguay
Athens	 Greece
Avarua	 Cook Islands	Self-governing in free association with New Zealand.
Baghdad	 Iraq
Baku	 Azerbaijan
Bamako	 Mali
Bandar Seri Begawan	 Brunei
Bangkok	 Thailand
Bangui	 Central African Republic
Banjul	 The Gambia
Basseterre	 Saint Kitts and Nevis
Beijing	 China	See also: Historical capitals of China.
Beirut	 Lebanon
Belgrade	 Serbia
Belmopan	 Belize
Berlin	 Germany
Bern	 Switzerland	Switzerland has no de jure capital.
Bishkek	 Kyrgyzstan
Bissau	 Guinea-Bissau
Bloemfontein	 South Africa
Cape Town
Pretoria
Bogotá	 Colombia
Brades	 Montserrat	British Overseas Territory. Plymouth was abandoned after the eruption of the Soufriere Hills volcano in 1997. Government offices since then have been moved to Brades, which is in the northwestern part of Montserrat.
Plymouth
Brasília	 Brazil
Bratislava	 Slovakia
Brazzaville	 Congo
Bridgetown	 Barbados
Brussels	 Belgium	Also the de facto capital of the  European Union.
Bucharest	 Romania
Budapest	 Hungary
Buenos Aires	 Argentina
Cairo	 Egypt	A new capital is being built at the New Administrative Capital. It will reportedly be named Wedian.
Canberra	 Australia	Planned city built to overcome the rivalry between Melbourne and Sydney, which were both put forward as potential capitals for the nation in the Australasia Federation Conventions of the 1890s. Section 125 of the Constitution gives basic details about the location of the capital, size of the encompassing territory and so forth, while the Seat of Government Act 1908 specified its precise location.
Caracas	 Venezuela
Castries	 Saint Lucia
Cetinje	 Montenegro
Podgorica
Charlotte Amalie	 United States Virgin Islands	Territory of the United States.
Chișinău	 Moldova
Cockburn Town	 Turks and Caicos Islands	British Overseas Territory.
Colombo	 Sri Lanka	Until the 1980s, the capital was Colombo, where many important governmental institutions still remain and which is still designated as the commercial capital of Sri Lanka.
Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte	Also known as "Kotte".
Conakry	 Guinea
Copenhagen	 Denmark
Dakar	 Senegal
Damascus	 Syria
Dar es Salaam	 Tanzania	Dar es Salaam, the former capital and largest city continues to serve as the de facto seat of government hosting the presidency, government ministries, judiciary and diplomatic missions.
Dodoma
Dhaka	 Bangladesh
Dili	 East Timor
Djibouti	 Djibouti
Doha	 Qatar
Douglas	 Isle of Man	British Crown Dependency.
Dublin	 Ireland
Dushanbe	 Tajikistan
El Aaiún	 Western Sahara [c]	The Sahrawi Republic, recognised by 82 states, claims the mostly Moroccan controlled Western Sahara. Moroccan controlled territory includes El Aaiún, and Morocco claims all Sahrawi controlled territory. Tifariti is now the temporary capital (instead of Bir Lehlou earlier) of the SADR. Some government and military structures reside in exile in Tindouf, Algeria.[1] See Politics of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.
Tifariti
Flying Fish Cove	 Christmas Island	External territory of Australia.
Freetown	 Sierra Leone
Funafuti	 Tuvalu
Gaborone	 Botswana
George Town	 Cayman Islands	British Overseas Territory.
Georgetown	 Ascension Island	Part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
Georgetown	 Guyana
Gibraltar	 Gibraltar	British Overseas Territory.
Gitega	 Burundi	Bujumbura was the capital from 1962 to 2018.
Bujumbura
Guatemala City	 Guatemala
Gustavia	 Saint Barthélemy	Overseas collectivity of France.
Hagåtña	 Guam	Territory of the United States.
Hamilton	 Bermuda	British Overseas Territory.
Hanoi	 Vietnam
Harare	 Zimbabwe
Hargeisa	 Somaliland	Unrecognized and self-declared state, de jure part of Somalia.
Havana	 Cuba
Helsinki	 Finland
Honiara	 Solomon Islands
Islamabad	 Pakistan	Karachi was selected as the first capital of Pakistan and served as such until the capital was shifted to Rawalpindi in 1958. Rawalpindi served as an interim capital for almost a decade until the construction in Islamabad was complete.
Jakarta	 Indonesia	A new purpose-built city in Kalimantan is planned to replace Jakarta as the national capital from the mid 2020s.[2]
Jamestown	 Saint Helena	Part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
Jerusalem	 Israel (de facto)
Ramallah
Juba	 South Sudan
Kabul	 Afghanistan
Kampala	 Uganda
Kathmandu	 Nepal
Khartoum	 Sudan
Kigali	 Rwanda
King Edward Point	 South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands	British Overseas Territory.
Kingston	 Jamaica
Kingston	 Norfolk Island	External territory of Australia.
Kingstown	 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Kinshasa	 Democratic Republic of the Congo
Kuala Lumpur	 Malaysia
Putrajaya
Kuwait City	 Kuwait
Kyiv	 Ukraine
La Paz	 Bolivia	La Paz is the highest administrative capital (3,650 m) in the world, higher than Quito.[5]
Sucre
Libreville	 Gabon
Lilongwe	 Malawi
Lima	 Peru	Cusco is declared as the "Historical Capital" (Spanish: Capital Historica), a merely symbolic statement, by Article 49 of the Peruvian Constitution.
Lisbon	 Portugal
Ljubljana	 Slovenia
Lobamba	 Eswatini
Mbabane
Lomé	 Togo
London	 United Kingdom	Prior to the Acts of Union in 1707, London was the capital of England only; Edinburgh was the capital of the Kingdom of Scotland.
Luanda	 Angola
Lusaka	 Zambia
Luxembourg	 Luxembourg
Madrid	 Spain
Majuro	 Marshall Islands	Self-governing in free association with the United States.
Malabo	 Equatorial Guinea	Ciudad de la Paz is currently under construction and will become the new capital when complete.[6]
Malé	 Maldives
Managua	 Nicaragua
Manama	 Bahrain
Manila	 Philippines
Maputo	 Mozambique
Mariehamn	 Åland Islands	Autonomous province of Finland.
Marigot	 Saint Martin	Overseas collectivity of France.
Maseru	 Lesotho
Mata Utu	 Wallis and Futuna	Overseas collectivity of France.
Mexico City	 Mexico
Minsk	 Belarus
Mogadishu	 Somalia
Monaco	 Monaco	City-state. The Principality of Monaco does not have an official capital designated in its constitution, however, the Commune of Monaco, the country's only commune, is coterminous with the nation, making it the de facto capital.[7][8]
Monrovia	 Liberia
Montevideo	 Uruguay
Moroni	 Comoros
Moscow	 Russia
Muscat	 Oman
Nairobi	 Kenya
Nassau	 Bahamas
Naypyidaw	 Myanmar
N'Djamena	 Chad
New Delhi	 India	Kolkata was the capital of India until 1911 during the British Raj.
Ngerulmud	 Palau	Self-governing in free association with the United States. Koror was the capital of Palau until 2006.
Niamey	 Niger
Nicosia	 Cyprus
Nouakchott	 Mauritania
Nouméa	 New Caledonia	Overseas territory of France.
Nukuʻalofa	 Tonga
Nur-Sultan	 Kazakhstan	Formerly known as Astana; the name was changed on 20 March 2019.
Nuuk	 Greenland	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of Denmark.
Oranjestad	 Aruba	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Oslo	 Norway
Ottawa	 Canada
Ouagadougou	 Burkina Faso
Pago Pago	 American Samoa	Territory of the United States.
Palikir	 Micronesia	Self-governing in free association with the United States.
Panama City	 Panama
Papeete	 French Polynesia	Overseas collectivity of France.
Paramaribo	 Suriname
Paris	 France
Philipsburg	 Sint Maarten	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Phnom Penh	 Cambodia
Port Louis	 Mauritius
Port Moresby	 Papua New Guinea
Port of Spain	 Trinidad and Tobago
Port Vila	 Vanuatu
Port-au-Prince	 Haiti
Porto-Novo	 Benin
Prague	 Czech Republic
Praia	 Cape Verde
Pristina	 Kosovo[g]	De facto independent state that is recognised by 112 UN member states and by Taiwan. Claimed in whole by the Republic of Serbia as part of its Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija. Republic of Kosovo has de facto control over most of the territory, with limited control in North Kosovo.
Pyongyang	 North Korea
Quito	 Ecuador	Highest official capital (2,850 m).[5]
Rabat	 Morocco
Reykjavík	 Iceland
Riga	 Latvia
Riyadh	 Saudi Arabia
Road Town	 British Virgin Islands	British Overseas Territory.
Rome	 Italy
Roseau	 Dominica
Saipan	 Northern Mariana Islands	Territory of the United States.
San José	 Costa Rica
San Juan	 Puerto Rico	Territory of the United States.
San Marino	 San Marino
San Salvador	 El Salvador
Santiago	 Chile
Valparaíso	The National Congress of Chile is located in Valparaíso.
Santo Domingo	 Dominican Republic
São Tomé	 São Tomé and Príncipe
Sarajevo	 Bosnia and Herzegovina
Seoul	 South Korea
Singapore	 Singapore	City-state.
Skopje	 North Macedonia
Sofia	 Bulgaria
South Tarawa	 Kiribati
St. George's	 Grenada
St. Helier	 Jersey	British Crown Dependency.
St. John's	 Antigua and Barbuda
St. Peter Port	 Guernsey	British Crown Dependency.
St. Pierre	 Saint Pierre and Miquelon	Overseas collectivity of France.
Stanley	 Falkland Islands	British Overseas Territory.
Stepanakert	 Artsakh	The self-declared country remains diplomatically unrecognised by UN-member states, including Armenia. Transnistria, South Ossetia, and Abkhazia all recognise the state. Claimed in whole by Azerbaijan.
Stockholm	 Sweden
Sukhumi	 Abkhazia	De facto independent state recognised by Russia, Nauru, Nicaragua, Venezuela, South Ossetia and Transnistria. Claimed in whole by Republic of Georgia as the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia.
Suva	 Fiji
Taipei	 Taiwan	Officially the Republic of China (ROC), it has been competing for recognition with the People's Republic of China (PRC) as the sole Chinese government since 1949. Taiwan controls the island of Taiwan and its associated islands, Quemoy, Matsu, the Pratas, and part of the Spratly Islands.[Note 1] The territory of Taiwan is claimed in whole by the People's Republic of China.[Note 2] The Republic of China participates in the World Health Organization and a number of non-UN international organizations such as the World Trade Organization, International Olympic Committee and others under a variety of pseudonyms, most commonly Chinese Taipei.
Tallinn	 Estonia
Tashkent	 Uzbekistan
Tbilisi	 Georgia
Tegucigalpa	 Honduras
Tehran	 Iran
Thimphu	 Bhutan
Tirana	 Albania
Tiraspol	 Transnistria	De facto independent state, not recognized by any UN-member, but by Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Claimed in whole by the Republic of Moldova as the Territorial Unit of Transnistria.
Tokyo	 Japan
Tórshavn	 Faroe Islands	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of Denmark.
Tripoli	 Libya
Tskhinvali	 South Ossetia	De facto independent state recognised by Russia, Nicaragua, Nauru, Venezuela, Abkhazia and Transnistria. Claimed in whole by the Republic of Georgia as the Provisional Administrative Entity of South Ossetia.
Tunis	 Tunisia
Ulaanbaatar	 Mongolia
Vaduz	 Liechtenstein
Valletta	 Malta
The Valley	 Anguilla	British Overseas Territory.
Vatican City	 Vatican City	City-state.
Victoria	 Seychelles
Vienna	 Austria
Vientiane	 Laos
Vilnius	 Lithuania
Warsaw	 Poland
Washington, D.C.	 United States
Wellington	 New Zealand	See also: Capital of New Zealand.
West Island	 Cocos (Keeling) Islands	External territory of Australia.
Willemstad	 Curaçao	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Windhoek	 Namibia
Yaoundé	 Cameroon
Yaren	 Nauru	Country does not have an official capital; however, the government offices are in Yaren.
Yerevan	 Armenia
Zagreb	 Croatia
